# TEAS NS DT MEETING DEC 23, 2019

## PARTICIPANTS

* Jari Arkko
* Dhruv Dhody
* Stewart Bryant
* Luis M. Contreras
* Xuesong Geng
* Shunsuke Homma
* Jie Dong

## AGENDA

* Templates update
* ACTN: a realisation or a component of the interface?
* Framework
* AoB

## NOTE TAKER

Jari Arkko as well as some updates from the team, written on an etherpad during the meeting.

## TEMPLATES

Luis explained the work to date. The initial goal was to be able to map the 3GPP attributes to the transport concepts discussed in the TEAS working. Also, the definitions draft discusses the concept of Service Level Objectives (SLO), and how that relates to the transport concepts. There was also a presentation in IETF-106 on ... Luis wants to be able to understand how the work of the design team relates to customer needs.

Jari asked what is the deliverable, and will there be a document for the working group? The primary goal has been to improve understanding. We need to have something more concrete than the general SLO terms. We need a way to verify that the design team data model has the right way to represent an SLO. If the template analysis points to things that are not listed in the SLO, then we've done something wrong.

Xuesong had a concern that 3GPP discusses end-to-end slices and controllers, and it isn't clear how the end-to-end slice descriptions  or templates or controllers map to the transport part. Luis thinks that the majority of parameters come from the end-to-end definitions.

Jari asked if Luis' work already provides input  on what to put into the definitions or data model draft? Luis not yet. Jari asked Luis to develop this input, and he took the action.

## ACTN

Is ACTN an implementation or realization that gets used by the controller? Or is ACTN a part of the northbound interface? Dhruv was thinking  about this, and may have a proposal in  this space. But has the design team thought about this?

Thoughts from the design team:

    * No we have not officially answered that question yet. Individuals may have thought about it.
    * The northbound interaface needs to be generic enough. A general implementation technique may actually be good enough  for the NBI, but it is  not guaranteed.
    * ACTN is a good starting point but may require some augmentation. Probably there  are also other solutions.

## FRAMEWORK

Jari presents and discuss an skeleton for the framework document.

Stewart comments on the need of considering:

    * Monitoring to ensure proper working of the slice
    * Security concerns, related to isolation
    * Reference to the dynamic reconfiguration of slices
    * Need of properly scoping the work focusing on networking

Shunsuke asked if function performance is going to be included in transport slices and their monitoring.

The skeleton worked on has some similaritie with the VPN+ framework document already worked on in the working group. Need to consider how to reuse what we already have. There's a question of whether the framework should at least refer to specific realisation techniques like ACTN or VPN+.

A gap analysis document is needed after the framework document is done.

## AOB

None

## CLOSING

The meeting ended at 4PM CET.

