# TEAS NS DT Meeting January 9th, 2020

## Participants

* Jari Arkko
* Eric Gray
* Jeff Tantsura
* Aihua Guo
* Dhruv Dhody
* Jie Dong
* John Drake
* Kiran
* Luis M. Contreras
* Rakesh Gandhi
* Ran Chen
* Reza Rokui
* Stewart Bryant
* Tomonobu Niwa
* Xuesong Geng
* Xufeng Liu
* Shunsuke Homma

## Agenda

1. Administrativia
2. Definitions
3. Framework
4. Any other business

## Notes

### Administrativia

### Definitions

Reza, Kiran, Luis, and Shunsuke updated design team the situation with regards the definitions draft. Side-discussions were going on, and a new draft on definitions will be submitted later this week.

From Jari's point of view the situation with definitions is pretty clear, we know what to do (e.g., complete Section 5), and once that is done we can look at it again.
 
Some additional comments were also sent on the definitions earlier this week. Want to know whether these comments can be incoporated in the next version.

There was a discussion of whether Eric Gray's comments were addressed. Reza has responded to Eric's comments, but the exchange needs to be reviewed to make sure all issues have been discussed.

### Framework

Reza updated the situation with regards to the framework, he believes his earlier document is a good starting point, even if the document focuses quite a bit on the 5G angle. The document needs to be generalized. Reza has invited a few interested authors to join the work.

Eric Gray commented that the selection of authors does not work in the way that it is being done in the framework document; the list of authors should be people who contributed text.

Jari said that in the IETF we tend to pick as authors people who write text, rather than people who support the idea. One may support a draft but that does not mean one's name needs to be on the author list. Lets leave room for additional authors (the common limit being 5) later in a document's lifecycle, rather than add too many authors in  the beginning. We should also avoid using draft-nsdt file names until the design team official backs a particular draft. Use draft-lastname file names in the beginning.

No major change between draft-rokui-5g-transport-slice-00.txt and Reza's version from Wednesday Jan 8th.

Discussion agrees that we should keep draft the framework draft generic, not technoogy speciic. E.g., remove all 5G discussion.

Jari suggested that Reza should start from an empty document, adding material to it that fits from the old draft, rather than try to remove a few things. A short document is better than long document.

Both John and Jie say that VPN+ framework already provides most of the content for a generic framework document. 

John suggests that people read the VPN+ draft because there's a lot of useful material for the general case. John will read the skeleton and provide an annotation with a comparison to the VPN+ draft.

Jari asks if Reza can provide a new version before next meeting on Monday? Reza thinks not, and Jari asks if he can focus on getting the definitions document out instead. Jari suggests that others can provide suggestions on the contents of the framework draft in the meanwhile. There's already a skeleton in https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/blob/master/notes/notes-2019-12-23-framework-skeleton.md Jari also volunteered to provide initial text for the framework draft before the Monday meeting.

### Any other business

The team discussed  Adrian Farrell's comments on the mailing list. Adrian asked about how the design team work and existing particular piece of work  in the TEAS WG (VPN+, https://tools.ietf.org/wg/teas/draft-ietf-teas-enhanced-vpn/) fit together.

* Kiran: co-authors of enhanced-vpn tech should contribute to framework
* Jari: It is ok for the design team framework to reference existing or currently-in-development tech, such as enhanced-vpn. But we  should also still be careful of picking winners or claiming that a single tech is the only component that is needed.
* Eric: it is the job of the framework document to refer to existing technologies and explain how they fit the overall picture (and what they provide or don't provide).
* Jari: we seem to have agreement that the framework document needs to explain existing work and its relevance. At the same time we cannot show preferential treatment to a particular technology.
* Eric raises the point that we should not work on technology-specific enhancements, only abstract data models and interfaces are within design team scope.
* Jie Dong: I'd like to mention that the enhanced VPN framework draft in TEAS do provide a framework and the list of candidate technologies in each layer, it is NOT one specific technology, please read the draft,  thanks
* Kiran: Is gap analysis a part of the framework. Diverse opinions. Problematic to pick winners. On the other hand, one has to describe what functionality is provided by the different existing technologies. Important to keep the abstraction level right in describing  the different technologies.
* Jari says that we need to describe diffrerent existing technologies sufficiently so that the reader understands which role each technology provides (e.g., an implementation technology vs. a framework for supporting multiple implementation technologies)

Kiran suggests that in the next meeting we could have an introduction to VPN+.

It is mentioned that VPN+ framwork draft already provides lots of content as a general framework, need to review it and see what can be reused.

(Discussion on the relation to the framework draft  has since then progressed on the mailing list.)

### Closing

Meeting was closed 5.56PM CET. The next meeting will be on Monday, January 13th, at 3PM CET.

