
# NOTES FROM TEAS-NS-DT Thursday, October 31, 2019


## PARTICIPANTS

* Jari Arkko
* Jie Dong
* Eric Gray
* John Drake
* Luis M. Contreras
* Reza Rokui
* Ron Bonica
* Sergio Belotti
* Xufeng Liu
* Rakesh Gandhi
* ...


## AGENDA
     
* Note taking   
* Agenda bashing
* Definitions
* Drafts under preparation
* Next calls before the IETF
* AoB


## NOTE TAKING

Notes lived at https://etherpad.net/p/teas-ns-dt-call5 (now at https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/blob/master/notes/notes-2019-10-31.md)

## DISCUSSION


### Agenda bashing

Face-to-face meeting, GitHub usage, and timing of conference calls were added


### Definitions

Reza went through the draft he had co-authored in the team. It was noted that it is important that we understand what use cases we have. These will drive what we need to do. Reza's draft is primarily starting from the 5G angle.

Discussion:

Jie Dong: Examples given the document are helpful. But the key parts of the definition are already covered in the VPN+ document.
* "A transport network slice is a virtual (logical) network with a particular network topology and a set of shared or dedicated network resources, which are used to provide the network slice consumer with the required connectivity, appropriate isolation and specific Service Level Agreement (SLA)."

Also, a slice can include more than connectivity, e.g., control plane functions, firewalls, etc. Can we generalise the definition to include functions as well as endpoints?

Reza: there is an existing ietf-teas-sf-aware-topology-model, can we use those definitions? Network functions and services are already defined there.

John: we should not care about what's connected in the endpoints, that should be someone else's problem. We should not use the network function definition. We should not flatten the functions in one layer; lets just do multipoint-to-multipoint connections between endpoints. Then operate network services and functions on top.

Reza: ok, but what would we call the endpoints then? John: lets just describe connectivity, what's atteched to the endpoints should not matter. In VPN terminology they are called attachment circuits.

Jari: I also prefer the more constrained definition where we only deal with connectivity. I also prefer "endpoint" term over "attachment circuit".

Jari: If we have examples about functions, the context is fine. But maybe we just define our end result as a connection, between endpoints? Anyone who disagrees with that? John: I think that's right.

Jari: Would like to see the use of the term "endpoint" and avoid the use of "SLA" (maybe characteristic). Also avoid the use the "network functions".

Reza: is there existing terminology we can use, we can't be the first ones to use these terms.

Jari: we're just showing how to use IETF tech, so maybe we can use whatever TEAS already has.

Jie Dong: Some TEAS documents use "termination endpoint". Jari: fine with that.

Jari concluded with some next steps. We have some convergence on this call on the definition, but not entirely done yet. Reza to take feedback into account and produce a next version (and submit draft as individual). Jari to create a base definition placeholder in the DT GitHub repo. Jari to send some suggestions on the list regarding the definition. All to continue discussion on the list and next Monday's call.

### Drafts under preparation

The following is known:

* Xufeng Liu: wants to submit a draft on modelling, as individual draft
* Reza will publish the definition as individual
* Jari plans to write a more final scoping text next week (not as draft, but for the design team github and wg presentation)

But, AP on everyone: submit your ideas and documents as individual I-Ds on Monday.

### Next Steps

The group discussed calls before the IETF. Will have a call on Monday Nov 4th at the usual time. But do we need for another call on Monday Nov 11th? (people may be travelling on Thursday 14th when our usual call time would be on.)
* AP: Jari will attempt to schedule one.

Will the group have a face-to-face meeting in the IETF? The call participants wanted to have  one.
* AP: Jari to send a doodle for the timing on this

Will the team present something at the TEAS WG meeting? We are required to by our chatter.
* AP: Jari to ask for time (done)

Will the design team use GitHub for the definition or other work? We should
* AP: Jari to create a base for definition


### AoB

No other issues
