
PARTICIPANTS

    - Jari Arkko
    - Eric Gray
    - Dhruv Dhody
    - Reza Rokui
    - Kiran Makhijani
    - Luis M. Contreras
    - Rakesh Gandhi
    - Shunshuke Homma
    - John Drake
    - Jie Dong

AGENDA

- agenda bash
- administrativia
- call timing
- take-aways from the IETF discussions
- other topics


DISCUSSION

AGENDA BASH
- No comments

ADMINISTRATIVE
- No comments

CALL TIMING
- The call timing is not optimal, but it is difficult to move the Thursday call because we need to have one call where the Californians can also participate in.
- Calls will continue to be on Mondays 3PM CET and Thursdays on 5PM CET, on alternating weeks.

IETF TAKE-AWAYS

- Dhruv: I am not a member but happy to participate open calls. My main angle is ACTN.

- Eric:  We are still not settled on terminology

- Jeff: We have pretty good foundation. Even agreed mostly on terminology, including SLO. Happy about progress in IETF-106.
- Jie
  . had some good discussion about definitions
  . maybe for next time we should focus more on northbound and data-models, including analysis of existing models and gaps
- John Drake
  . had the impression that Lou was looking for something different (a catalogue)
- Kiran
  - agree with john
  - not much ietf feedback
  - but internally converging
- Luis
  . we have . a clear roadmap of what we need to do (terminology, data model)
  . good base for pgoressing
  . some misalignment with lou
- Rakesh
  . two things we are focusing: data model and terminology
  . some aspects were raised, one ebing requirements and framework
  . some contention/confusion between ns dt and other work (e.g. vpn+) in the wg
- Reza
   . first priority is terminoogy, have to finish that
   . the next one is not the data model but rather the framework
     - only after careful analysis . and having the framework we can say if we need new model
- Sergio
   . good interest in slicing and the presentation
   . already good outputs, a terminology draft in good shape
   . agree with reza's priorities, but would also good to be having some structure for the data model work
   . the design team is in a good situation
- Shunshuke
   . agree with others, should fix terminlogy and framework
   . support Luis' work on the GSMA template analysis, before making the data model
- Jari
  . good discussion on . terms and progress
  . as John noted, chairs are driving (rightfully, imo) a tighter scope, more about inventory/guideline and less on new things
  . as Reza noted, the focus should be on terms, framework, then data model
  . as Rakesh noted, some confusion regarindg different work items in the WG
- Discussion
  . John: should also look at other wgs: spring, bess, sfc
  . Kiran : where does dt work stop,where to draw the line 
  . Jeff: good question
   . Jari: good question. i'd look at two minimal options:
          1/ document terms, framework, gaps, existing components, declare success (and others may continue)
          2/ document terms, framework, gaps, existing components, specify first augmentation/increment of the data model, declare sucess
  . Reza: want to go for option 2
  . Kiran wants to do the work, but when is DT work defined to end and other work continues
  . Jeff and Reza wish to do requirement/gap analysis and solution work in parallel
 . Jari: all this points to a need to be very clear what exists and what doesn't. we may still build the augmentation, even in parallel.
  . Jeff: agrees with Jari. need to be clear.
  . Jie. agrees with Jeff. The definition and terminology need to be aligned, while work in design team and other WGs can go in parellel. The design team mainly focus on northbound part.  (bad audio)
    . Eric has the impression (from E-Mail discussions with Lou) that doing the data modeling is not the design team's task. we should not work on that, but rather we should work on terms, framework, gaps.  He also said that there is no objection to doing the work in parallel, just to doing it within the design team.
   . Jeff argued that this might result in diverse data models popping up all over the place.
- Next steps
  . continue discussion of terminology on list (eg., jari wants to narrow down the definition and separate more clearly the definition and uses cases and applications to 5G)
  . start a discussion of what the framework document should contain. we need to deliver that by the next IETF. At this point, would be important for all DT members and participants to provide their views . on what the framework doc should contain and . how should it structured. Specific text contributions (e.g.,  Reza has provided a draft) are very welcome as well, but editing text is too early at this stage. Lets first agree on the general approach through discussion and DT calls.
  
OTHER TOPICS
- none

MEETING CLOSE
- Meeting was closed at 18:00 CET.
